<p>There were a number of questions that demanded a clear answer. Answers that had a scent of absoluteness about them. At the same time they had to relate to their deconstruction as well because all knowledge is only about the present state of affairs: every second - or whatever unit of time is appropriate - knowledge will have to be rethought. So you can understand the confusion that was troubling his mind. In an age where information is valued by its instantaneousness, the unit of time mentioned above approaches a zero-point. At least for humans. In this kind of time-frame any endeavor that pretends to find radical answers has the danger of reaching a state of complete short-circuited, paralyzing standstill.</p>
<p>He decided to start with a list of these questions first. The image crossed his mind of a person endlessly writing down questions until the final encounter with Death who would then say "It is time". He therefore decided to keep the list small, to limit it to ten or twenty questions or so. He wondered if it would be possible for such a small list to be that all encompassing such that any future action could be based on a decision that, directly or indirectly, derived from the different answers given to these questions. The limitations that this strategy imposed could work as a focal point, a lens that concentrated the endless arrays of possibilities into a stream of creative energy. It seemed very similar to a whole range of human inventions like a dam, a magnifying glass, the combustion engine, windmills, music, ritual dances. This list seemed endless as well. He remarked that it would be pretentious to base a rhetoric for mankind's superiority - as he had heard some people do - on this list of feats because these technologies were just abstractions for the way nature has functions millions and millions of years before any human had laid claim to anything. He decided it would be a good idea to use the same model for his toolbox of questions.</p>
<p>At this point he enjoyed the ambiguousness of the project he was about to set his mind on. Although he hadn't figured out any answer up until now - he hadn't even started listing the questions yet - there were already a number of rules that seemed important: first, that the list of questions be small, that secondly they were to form a tight conceptual system, a dogma if you will, that ultimately as a third rule were to constrain all actions that followed.</p>
<p>A first contradiction forced itself into his thoughts. There was need for a fourth rule. One that would ensure a certain openness in the rigidity of the constructed edifice. He found it to be impossible to formulate this loophole at this stage. It had to have something to do with the way tautologies work. The repetitive act of folding something onto itself until you hit the limits of its fabric, but then to nevertheless continue and taunt it and seduce it to change its internal structure and become something else. He hoped that holding dear to the first systemic rules and to pursue them ruthlessly would hold the promise of one day discovering a strategy to break out of them again. For now, all he could do was to be on guard for when it started battering the building he'd so carefully constructed.</p>